add `describeEnum` removal breaking change entry and migration guide (#13682)
flutter/website: sites/docs/src/content/release/breaking-changes/remove-describeEnum.md

---
title: Remove describeEnum
description: >-
  The describeEnum method has been removed from the Flutter framework.

>   since Dart 2.14 Enums has the name getter which does the same thing.

Author: done

---

{% render "docs/breaking-changes.md" %}

## Summary

The `describeEnum` has been removed from the framework because it's redundant with the `name`

> getter on `Enum` which was introduced in `Dart 2.14`.

Author: done

## Context

> Historically, Flutter used `describeEnum` to get a short description of an enum value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Historically, Flutter used `describeEnum` to return a `String` description of an enum value.
```

this became redundant when `name` getter of `Enum` was introduced in `Dart 2.14`, all methods

> that uses `describeEnum` in the framework have migrated to using `name` getter.

Author: done

> that use `describeEnum` in the framework have migrated to using the `name` getter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This became redundant when the `name` getter of `Enum` was introduced in `Dart 2.14`.
```

Not super relevant to users :)

## Migration guide

If your code previously used `describeEnum` method to get the value name of an enum member.

> migrate your code to use the `name` getter on the instance itself.

Author: done

Code before migration:

```dart
enum Theme { light, dark }

final theme = describeEnum(Theme.light)

> // theme will contain `light`

Author: valid

```

Code after migration:

```dart
Theme.light.name;
// theme will contain `light`
```

## Timeline

Landed in version: TBD<br>
In stable release: TBD

## References

API documentation:

* [`enums`][]

Relevant PRs:

> * [PR 190076][]

Reviewer: Would be good to include the PR it was deprecated in

Author: done
